# Smallest Sufficient Team

> It appears that almost all DP problems are marked "hard" on LeetCode, but this one is not that bad:)

Problem: [Smallest Sufficient Team - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/smallest-sufficient-team/description/)

## Algorithm

Let $n$ be the number of required skills and $m$ be the # of candidates. Let $S(i ,j)$ be the size of smallest team whose members have all the skills denoted by $i$, up to the first $j$ candidates. Denote $S(i,j)=\infin$ if such team does not exist. Let $s_j$ be the skillset of the person indexed $j$. To illustrate using the example 1, let $i = \{\text{java}\}$ and $j = 0$, then $S(i,j) = \{0\}$. We first mark some obvious boundaries:

- $\forall{j}: S(\emptyset, j) = 0$
- If $s_{j+1}\subseteq i$, then $S(i,j+1)=S(i,j)$

Now we discuss the general situation. To find out the value of $S(i,j)$, we note that the upcoming candidate $j$ can join the team of $i$ only if there exists some team $S(i',j-1)$ such that $i'\cup s_j=i$, and if there exist more than one team that meets such a condition, one can pick the smallest team and ask $j$ to join them. To sum up,

$S(i,j) = \min\{\min[S(i',j-1)]+1, S(i,j-1)\}$ where $i'\cup s_j=i$.

## Implementation

The first step is to convert the skills into numbers so that we can manipulate the data at ease. There are two sets we are to work with: the set of skills for each person and the set of candidates we team up with. Note that the status we need to maintain (either the skill or the team member) is binary, so it is a good idea to use a bitset. Furthermore, neither of them exceeds 64, so we can simply use a 8-byte unsigned integer to denote the sets.

- Skillset: Let the $i$-th bit be 1 if the candidate has this skill. 
- Member Set: Let the $j$-th bit be 1 if $j$ is in the team.

Now that  we can simply use an `unsigned long long` to denote a skillset or a member set, we are moving on to the core algorithm. Note that in our equation $S(i,j)$ is dependent on $j-1$, no other previous candidates attached. This gives us a hint that we need only to maintain all $S(i, j-1)$ from the last candidate. Moreover, if we are doing DP in a bottom-up way, there is no need to figure out how to look up all $i'$: we simply visit all feasible solutions up to $j-1$ candidates and update $S((i'\cup s_j),j)$ accordingly. 

A code snippet of the core algorithm is as follows. 

```cpp
// Key: skillset; value: smallest # of members
// __builtin_popcountll: count the number of 1's of a number in binary form.
unordered_map<uint32_t, uint64_t> origin; // S(i, j-1). 
unordered_map<uint32_t, uint64_t> target; // S(i, j)
for (uint32_t i = 0; i < skillsPerPerson.size(); i++) {
    target.clear();
    for (const auto &item : origin) {
        // All feasible solutions of j+1 are applicable to j.
        if (target.find(item.first) == target.end() || __builtin_popcountll(item.second) < __builtin_popcountll(target[item.first])) {
            target[item.first] = item.second;
        }
        // update S(i,j) if having j makes the team feasible or smaller
        uint32_t skillValueWithPersonI = (item.first | skillsPerPerson[i]);
        if (target.find(skillValueWithPersonI) == target.end() || __builtin_popcountll(item.second) < __builtin_popcountll(target[skillValueWithPersonI])) {
            target[skillValueWithPersonI] = Mask(i, item.second);
        }
    }
    swap(origin, target); // swap the origin and target so the algorithm goes on
}
```