# 399. Evaluate Division

>   My LeetCode solutions on GitHub: [https://github.com/bsmsnd/LeetCode-CharlieChen](https://github.com/bsmsnd/LeetCode-CharlieChen)
>
>   Problem Link:
>   https://leetcode.com/problems/evaluate-division/description/

## Analysis

From simple math we know that, if we are given $\frac{i}{j} = t,\frac{j}{m} = n$, we have $\frac{i}{m} = tn$. If we represent each variable as a ***node***, and ***connect*** two nodes if we have its division result, then this generates an undirected graph and we can decide if we can find the result of the division of two variables if the nodes are **connected**.

It is simple to create the naive graph based on analysis above, and we can implement a search algorithm to see if each pair(query) of nodes are connected. The time complexity of each query is $O(E)$.

We can also transform the question a little bit: the graph can be further divided into certain number of trees if we assign some roots for each tree, and then if two nodes belong to the same tree, we can give the division result. This is a typical **Union Find** algorithm.

## What is the *Union Find* algorithm?

The *Union Find* algorithm is suitable for handling sets. It provides simple ways to merge two sets (named *union*) or to check if two nodes are in the same set (named *find*). The simplest version of the *Union Find* algorithm is as follows:

**Question.** Given certain nodes $i_1, i_2, ..., i_n$, and certain undirected edges $e_1, e_2, ..., e_m$. Determain if two nodes $p, q$ are connected.

**Algorithm.** 

1.   Create a vector `parent`of size $n$. Set `parent[i] = i` initially.
2.   Perform **Union** operations on each edge.
3.   Perfom **Find** operation on $p, q$ to retrive their root nodes.
4.   Return if the root of $p$ and $q$ are identical.

The **Find** Operation is to look for the root node of a given node, while compressing the paths by setting the `parent` *directly* to the root. The algorithm of `Find(h)` goes like the following:

1.   Check if `parent[h] = h`, 
     1.1 if not, perform `Find(parent[h])`, and set `parent[h] = Find(parent[h])`.
2.   Return `parent[h]`.

The **Union** operation, in essence, is to connect two subtrees. Therefore, instead of connecting two nodes naively, it connects the roots of two subtrees, i.e., set `parent[Find(p)] = Find(q)`

## Modifications to solve the problem

This question requires us to return the division result for each query. If we represent $\frac{i}{j} = t$ as `Parent[i] = j` with `value[i] = t`, then on each Union operation and each time we overwrite the root of each node, the `value`should change accordingly.

**Union**. Suppose we have $\frac{i}{k} = e$, `Find(i) = j`, `Find(k) = m`, $\frac{i}{j} = t$ and $\frac{k}{m} = n$. Then we can write 

$$\frac{j}{m} = \frac{j}{i}\frac{i}{k}\frac{k}{m}=\frac{en}{t}$$

Therefore, we can set `parent[j] = m` and `value[j] = p * n / t`.

**Find.** On each **Find** operation for node $i$, we should return the division value alongside the root. This is because when we are performing path compression, the division result will change based on the paths we merged. 

Suppose we have `parent[i] = p_i` and `value[i] = v_i`, but `Find(i) = j` differs from `p_i`, by rewriting `parent[i] = j` we will need to set `value[i]` as $\frac{i}{j} = \frac{i}{v_i}\frac{v_i}{j} = v_i v_{p_i}$, given $v_{p_i}=\frac{p_i}{j}$. This can be done using **recursions**.