# 857. Minimum Cost to Hire K Workers

> My LeetCode solutions on GitHub: [https://github.com/bsmsnd/LeetCode-CharlieChen](https://github.com/bsmsnd/LeetCode-CharlieChen)
>
> Problem Link:
> [https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-cost-to-hire-k-workers/](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-cost-to-hire-k-workers/)

## Analysis

There are two requirements for giving the wage. So we first investigate these two conditions:

> Every worker in the paid group should be paid in the ratio of their quality compared to other workers in the paid group.

This is to say that each worker in the paid group will have the same unit wage per quality. So the target 1 is to minimize the total quality.

> Every worker in the paid group must be paid at least their minimum wage expectation.

This is to say that each worker in the paid group will receive no less than the amount of wage they claims. Recall that each worker will be paid evenly regarding unit wage per quality, target 2 is therefore to minimize such a unit wage. As for this goal, we should understand that the unit cost is determined by the greatest unit cost among all workers in the paid group and there is no point if we pay a unit cost more than that, therefore the overall target is to find:

$$\mathcal{S} = \arg\min_{|\mathcal{S}| = k} \left[\left(\sum_{i \in \mathcal{S}}q[i]\right) \cdot \max_{i\in \mathcal{S}}\left(\frac{w[i]}{q[i]}\right)\right]$$

where $w[i], q[i]$ are the wage and quality of i-th worker.

Since each user has a unit wage and the unit wage of the paid group is determined by the greatest one, we can sort the workers based on the unit cost. For each unit cost, we can gather $K$ workers of smallest qualities and asks for smaller unit wage. We then go over all unit wage and obtain the minimum wage.

## Algorithm

1. Sort the workers based on unit wage, i.e., `w[i] / q[i]`
2. Iterate through all workers in the order described above: maintain a `priority_queue` of the qualities they have of size `K`. For the next worker of greater unit wage, if it has a smaller quality than the greatest one in the queue, we replace that worker with the new one and obtain a new total wage. Compare such a value with the best one we had.

## Complexity
Time Complexity: $O(n\lg n)$

Space Complexity: $O(n)$